DOCS-3593 [Trace Explorer][2] Facets article (#14236)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_explorer/visualize.md

---
title: Span Visualizations
kind: documentation
description: 'View spans in a list, or aggregate spans into timeseries, top lists and more.'
further_reading:
    - link: 'tracing/trace_explorer/'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Trace Explorer'
---

## Overview

Visualizations define how the queried span data is displayed. Select relevant visualizations to surface valuable information, such as a **list** for individual events, or as **timeseries** or **top lists** for aggregates. 

## List view

The list view displays a list of spans that match the selected context, defined by the [search bar query][1] filter and a [time range][2].

> In the **Show** row, choose which information of interest to display as columns. Manage the columns by either:

Reviewer: Previously, this said "In the choose which", so please make sure that I added an appropriate wording. :)

> In the **Show** row, choose which information of interest to display as columns. Manage the columns by either:

Author: ```suggestion
In the table, choose which information of interest to display as columns. Manage the columns by either:
```

- interacting with the table header row to **sort**, **rearrange**, or **remove** columns.
- selecting a facet from the facet panel on the left, or from the trace side panel after clicking on a specific span, to **add** a column for a field. You can also add columns from with the **Options** button.

{{< img src="tracing/trace_explorer/visualize/list_view_table_controls.mp4" alt="Configuring the display table" video=true style="width:80%;">}}

> {{< site-region region="us,eu,us3,us5,gov" >}}

Reviewer: Is there a site that should be removed from this list? Or can we remove the site-region section tags?

> {{< site-region region="us,eu,us3,us5,gov" >}}
> The default sort for spans in the list visualization is by timestamp, with the most recent spans on top. To surface spans with lowest or highest value for a measure first, or to sort your spans lexicographically for the value of a tag, specify that column as the **by** column.
> 
> {{< /site-region >}}

Author: ```suggestion
The default sort for spans in the list visualization is by timestamp, with the most recent spans on top. To surface spans with lowest or highest value for a measure first, or to sort your spans lexicographically for the value of a tag, specify that column as the **by** column.

```

3. Group the query by a dimension, for example, `Resource`.

   {{< img src="tracing/trace_explorer/visualize/group_by_dimension.png" alt="Split Dimension" style="width:100%;">}}

4. Choose to display a number of either top or bottom values according to the selected tag.

    {{< img src="tracing/trace_explorer/visualize/group_by_top_bottom.png" alt="Top Bottom X values" style="width:100%;">}}

5. Choose the rollup period, for example, `10min`.

    {{< img src="tracing/trace_explorer/visualize/group_by_rollup_period.png" alt="Rollup Period" style="width:100%;">}}

The following Trace Explorer timeseries view shows the evolution of the top ten resource names of the service `shopist-web-ui` according to the 95th percentile of `Duration` over the past four hours:

{{< img src="tracing/trace_explorer/visualize/timeseries_view.png" alt="Timeseries view" style="width:100%;">}}

Choose additional display options for timeseries: the **roll-up interval**, whether you **display** results as **bars** (recommended for counts and unique counts), **lines** (recommended for statistical aggregations) or **areas**, and the **colorset**.

## Top list

> Use a top list to visualize a span count, a count of unique tag values, or a measure split by one tag dimension.

Reviewer: is "a count of unique tag values" correct? The previous wording didn't make sense to me. If this is still off, let's workshop what it should say.

Author: This makes sense, thanks for modifying
